docs/api/PolyphaseWindingSpec.md, before:

---
title : PolyphaseWindingSpec
parent: API
grand_parent : Documentation
---
# Summary for: **PolyphaseWindingSpec**  < [Indexable](Indexable.html)

## Class summary

PolyphaseWindingSpec Winding specification class.

Instantiation:

this = PolyphaseWindingSpec()

this = PolyphaseWindingSpec(dimensions)

Loads the number of slots from dimensions.Qs and pole-pair
count from dimensions.p

Responsibilities:

* contains winding-specifying parameters (turns, layers, etc)

* assembles winding loop matrix for finite-element analysis

* calculates total (half-)turn length and winding overhang

* handles end-winding indcutance calculation

NOTE: End-winding inductance calculation only works for radial-flux
machines for now.

## Properties

### .**FE_filling_factor** Conductor filling factor for finite-element
analysis.

Equal to 1 for solid-conductor models.
Equal to this.filling_factor for stranded models.

### .**N_layers** - number of winding layers

### .**N_series** - number of turns per coil (slot and layer)

### .**a** - number of parallel paths

### .**circuit** - the [CircuitBase](CircuitBase.html) object associated with this

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**conductor_material** is a property.

### .**connection** - connection

### .**end_winding_length_per_conductor**

### .**extra_phase_inductance** - extra per-phase inductance

### .**filling_factor** Conductor area PER meshed conductor area.

Computed automatically from layout_spec.conductor_area if layout_spec.conductor area
returns a real value. If it returns nan, fill factor has to be
specified.

Note: for solid winding models, filling_factor will be ~equal to
1.

### .**geometry** - [GeoBase](GeoBase.html) object that this.circuit belongs to.

### .**gross_filling_factor** Gross filling factor

Gross conductor area (conductor + insulation) divided by the
uninsulated winding area (winding window area - liners and layer
insulations) .

### .**half_of_turn_length** - half of turn length

### .**layout_matrix** - winding layout matrix. See `this.set_layout_matrix`

### .**layout_spec** A WindingLayoutBase object specifying slot conductor
layout.

Default: UniformLayout.

See RectangularLayout and RoundWireLayout for common
alternatives.

Note that some Layouts only support stranded winding models,
while others also enable solid models with each conductor
modelled.

### .**lew_given** - given end-winding inductance per turn and per slot-segment

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec.**modelled_parallel_paths** is a property.

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**number_of_dq_components** is a property.

### .**number_of_meshed_conductors_per_layer** As the name suggests.

### .**p** - number of pole-pairs

### .**phases** - number of phases

### .**series_conductor_length_per_phase** - series-conductor length per-phase

### .**series_turns_per_phase** - number of series-turns per phase

### .**slot_filling_factor** Conductor area to winding area.

### .**span** - coil span

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**strand_transposition_type** is a property.

### .**winding_model_type** - modelling style, solid or stranded

### .**wires_in_hand** - number of wires in hand. Must be 1 for infinite stranded windings.


## Methods

Class methods are listed below. Inherited methods are not included.

### .**average_phase_quantity_matrix** Matrix for computing average
phase quantities.

Mave = average_phase_quantity_matrix(this)

This matrix is used to for problems where
`this.meshed_wires_in_hand`  > 1, and e.g. the phase flux
linkages of the parallel wires/paths may differ.

### .**bias_angle** Bias angle for winding.

a = bias_angle(this)

Returns a rotation angle for the direct-quadrature
transformation so that injecting d-axis current into the
winding generates flux on the rotor d-axis.

### .**bind_to_model** Bind to [CircuitBase](CircuitBase.html) object.

### .**create_slot_geometry** Create slot geometry.

Access method to WindingLayoutBase.create_slot_geometry

### .**dq** Transformation to **dq** frame

y = dq(this, xy, angles)

### .**end_winding_inductance_matrix** Compute the EW inductance matrix.

Computes the end-winding inductance matrix.

WARNING: For analysis/implementation reasons, the matrix is computed
**assuming no parallel paths**  = this.a = 1. The effect of parallel paths
is considered elsewhere.

The matrix is computed as

`Lew = end_winding_inductance_matrix(this)`

where

`Lew = 2 ** L_<segment' **  l_segment * L_segment` , where

* `L_segment`  : loop matrix for end-winding segments = segment between
two successive slots. Computed with `this.end_winding_loop_matrix`

* `l_segment`  : inductance of one end-winding segment. Computed with
`this.end_winding_segment_inductance` .

If non-zero, `this.this.extra_phase_inductance`  is added to the diagonal
of `Lew` , or block-diagonal in case `this.meshed_wires_in_hand`  > 1.

Only works for radial flux machines.

### .**end_winding_loop_matrix** End-winding loop matrix, per slot-segment.

L = end_winding_loop_matrix(this)

Returns a number_of_slots x phases matrix, representing how many
times each phase traverses each 'slot segment' = end-winding
piece between two successive slots.

Only computed for one end of a radial-flux machine.

### .**end_winding_segment_inductance** Inductance of one end-winding segment.

A 'segment' is understood as the part of end-winding between
two-successive slot pitches. Whenever there are several phases and/or
parallel paths running in the same segment, their self- and mutual
inductances are assumed equal in absolute value. (Signs may differ
depending on the coil/path/phase direction; this is considered by
`this.end_winding_segment_inductance` .

Calculation somewhat follows the approach given by Lipo, T.A. (*) for a random-wound
winding. Iron modelled as perfect conductor, to accound for eddy damping.

(*) Introduction to AC Machine Design

Only works for radial-flux machines.

### .**independent_current_loop_matrix** Current loop matrix for
independent coil currents.

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**line_current_matrix** is a function.
M = line_current_matrix(this)

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**line_to_line_voltage_matrix** is a function.
M = line_to_line_voltage_matrix(this)

### .**loop_matrix** Loop matrix associated with this.

L = loop_matrix(this)

Returns a number_of_meshed_conductors_in_model x number_of_current_loops matrix, with the
entries:

* L(i, k) = +n : Loop k traverses conductor i to positive direction

* L(i, k) = -n : Loop k traverses conductor i to positive direction

where:

* number_of_meshed_conductors : Number of would-be meshed conductors
per entire model. Equal to this.number_of_layers x
this.number_of_meshed_conductors_per_layer x this.number_of_slots

* number_of_current_loops : Number of current loops in winding; this.phases x this.wires_in_hand

* n : number of stranded turns per meshed conductor. 1 for
solid-conductor models, typically equal to this.N_series for stranded
models.

### .**property_modified** Adds the modified property to the list of modified
properties.

### .**save_to_excel** Export winding specs.

save_to_excel(this, filename, varargin)

### .**set_layout_matrix** Initialize winding layout matrix.

A layout matrix is a number_of_layers x number_of_slots matrix of
integers, with values in range -phases...phases.

The entries of the layout matrix W are:

*  W(i, j) = +k : phase k goes through layer i, slot j, to
positive direction:

* W(i, j) = -k : phase k goes through layer i, slot j, to
negative direction:

### .**show_unset_properties** Show warning about unset properties (default
values).

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**symmetry_period** is a function.
n = symmetry_period(this)

### .**total_phase_quantity_matrix** Sum of quantities in parallel
paths.

Mtot = total_phase_quantity_matrix(this)

This matrix is used to for problems where
`this.meshed_wires_in_hand`  > 1, to e.g. compute the total
current in a phase:

Iphase = Mtot * I_parallel_paths

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**visualize** is a function.
visualize(this, varargin)

### .**winding_angle** Compute winding angle.

a = winding_angle(this)

Compute the stator *winding angle*  i.e. rotation angle for the
direct-quadrature space vector transformation (*without* considering the
rotor bias angle) so that injecting d-axis current into the stator winding
generates a cosinusoidal airgap flux
density waveform (first peak of fundamental at y = 0, assuming
non-salient rotor).

### .**xy** Transform to phase quantities

y = xy(this, dq, angles), where

* angles : (rotor) angles in electrical degrees.

y = xy(this, dq)

Commit message:

Slot-Layout finished
More or less

docs/api/PolyphaseWindingSpec.md, after:

---
title : PolyphaseWindingSpec
parent: API
grand_parent : Documentation
---
# Summary for: **PolyphaseWindingSpec**  < [Indexable](Indexable.html)

## Class summary

PolyphaseWindingSpec Winding specification class.

Instantiation:

this = PolyphaseWindingSpec()

this = PolyphaseWindingSpec(dimensions)

Loads the number of slots from dimensions.Qs and pole-pair
count from dimensions.p

Responsibilities:

* contains winding-specifying parameters (turns, layers, etc)

* assembles winding loop matrix for finite-element analysis

* calculates total (half-)turn length and winding overhang

* handles end-winding indcutance calculation

The winding specification offers a way to control the winding model
used (solid or stranded conductors) and the slot layout (e.g. round
or rectangular wires). This functionality only works if the parent
geometry is of the [LayoutCompatible](LayoutCompatible.html) class. In this case:

* `this.layout_spec`, a [WindingLayoutBase](WindingLayoutBase.html) object defines the
layout.

* `this.winding_model_type`, typically `defs.stranded` or  `defs.solid`
defines the winding model type used.

## Properties

### .**FE_filling_factor** Conductor filling factor for finite-element
analysis.

Equal to 1 for solid-conductor models.
Equal to this.filling_factor for stranded models.

### .**N_layers** - number of winding layers

### .**N_series** - number of turns per coil (slot and layer)

### .**a** - number of parallel paths

### .**circuit** - the [CircuitBase](CircuitBase.html) object associated with this

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**conductor_material** is a property.

### .**connection** - connection

### .**end_winding_length_per_conductor**

### .**extra_phase_inductance** - extra per-phase inductance

### .**filling_factor** Conductor area PER meshed conductor area.

Computed automatically from layout_spec.conductor_area if layout_spec.conductor area
returns a real value. If it returns nan, fill factor has to be
specified.

Note: for solid winding models, filling_factor will be ~equal to
1.

### .**geometry** - [GeoBase](GeoBase.html) object that this.circuit belongs to.

### .**gross_filling_factor** Gross filling factor

Gross conductor area (conductor + insulation) divided by the
uninsulated winding area (winding window area - liners and layer
insulations) .

### .**half_of_turn_length** - half of turn length

### .**layout_matrix** - winding layout matrix. See `this.set_layout_matrix`

### .**layout_spec** A WindingLayoutBase object specifying slot conductor
layout.

Default: UniformLayout.

See RectangularLayout and RoundWireLayout for common
alternatives.

Note that some Layouts only support stranded winding models,
while others also enable solid models with each conductor
modelled.

For layouts to work properly, the parent geometry has to be of
the [LayoutCompatible](LayoutCompatible.html) class.

### .**lew_given** - given end-winding inductance per turn and per slot-segment

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec.**modelled_parallel_paths** is a property.

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**number_of_dq_components** is a property.

### .**number_of_meshed_conductors_per_layer** As the name suggests.

### .**p** - number of pole-pairs

### .**phases** - number of phases

### .**series_conductor_length_per_phase** - series-conductor length per-phase

### .**series_turns_per_phase** - number of series-turns per phase

### .**slot_filling_factor** Conductor area to winding area.

### .**span** - coil span

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**strand_transposition_type** is a property.

### .**winding_model_type** Winding model type.

Type of winding model used, typically defs.solid or
defs.stranded; defs.custom when supported by this.layout_spec.

The parent geometry must be of the [LayoutCompatible](LayoutCompatible.html) class.

### .**wires_in_hand** - number of wires in hand. Must be 1 for infinite stranded windings.


## Methods

Class methods are listed below. Inherited methods are not included.

### .**average_phase_quantity_matrix** Matrix for computing average
phase quantities.

Mave = average_phase_quantity_matrix(this)

This matrix is used to for problems where
`this.meshed_wires_in_hand`  > 1, and e.g. the phase flux
linkages of the parallel wires/paths may differ.

### .**bias_angle** Bias angle for winding.

a = bias_angle(this)

Returns a rotation angle for the direct-quadrature
transformation so that injecting d-axis current into the
winding generates flux on the rotor d-axis.

### .**bind_to_model** Bind to [CircuitBase](CircuitBase.html) object.

### .**create_slot_geometry** Create slot geometry.

Access method to WindingLayoutBase.create_slot_geometry

### .**dq** Transformation to **dq** frame

y = dq(this, xy, angles)

### .**end_winding_inductance_matrix** Compute the EW inductance matrix.

Computes the end-winding inductance matrix.

WARNING: For analysis/implementation reasons, the matrix is computed
**assuming no parallel paths**  = this.a = 1. The effect of parallel paths
is considered elsewhere.

The matrix is computed as

`Lew = end_winding_inductance_matrix(this)`

where

`Lew = 2 ** L_<segment' **  l_segment * L_segment` , where

* `L_segment`  : loop matrix for end-winding segments = segment between
two successive slots. Computed with `this.end_winding_loop_matrix`

* `l_segment`  : inductance of one end-winding segment. Computed with
`this.end_winding_segment_inductance` .

If non-zero, `this.this.extra_phase_inductance`  is added to the diagonal
of `Lew` , or block-diagonal in case `this.meshed_wires_in_hand`  > 1.

Only works for radial flux machines.

### .**end_winding_loop_matrix** End-winding loop matrix, per slot-segment.

L = end_winding_loop_matrix(this)

Returns a number_of_slots x phases matrix, representing how many
times each phase traverses each 'slot segment' = end-winding
piece between two successive slots.

Only computed for one end of a radial-flux machine.

### .**end_winding_segment_inductance** Inductance of one end-winding segment.

A 'segment' is understood as the part of end-winding between
two-successive slot pitches. Whenever there are several phases and/or
parallel paths running in the same segment, their self- and mutual
inductances are assumed equal in absolute value. (Signs may differ
depending on the coil/path/phase direction; this is considered by
`this.end_winding_segment_inductance` .

Calculation somewhat follows the approach given by Lipo, T.A. (*) for a random-wound
winding. Iron modelled as perfect conductor, to accound for eddy damping.

(*) Introduction to AC Machine Design

Only works for radial-flux machines.

### .**independent_current_loop_matrix** Current loop matrix for
independent coil currents.

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**line_current_matrix** is a function.
M = line_current_matrix(this)

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**line_to_line_voltage_matrix** is a function.
M = line_to_line_voltage_matrix(this)

### .**loop_matrix** Loop matrix associated with this.

L = loop_matrix(this)

Returns a number_of_meshed_conductors_in_model x number_of_current_loops matrix, with the
entries:

* L(i, k) = +n : Loop k traverses conductor i to positive direction

* L(i, k) = -n : Loop k traverses conductor i to positive direction

where:

* number_of_meshed_conductors : Number of would-be meshed conductors
per entire model. Equal to this.number_of_layers x
this.number_of_meshed_conductors_per_layer x this.number_of_slots

* number_of_current_loops : Number of current loops in winding; this.phases x this.wires_in_hand

* n : number of stranded turns per meshed conductor. 1 for
solid-conductor models, typically equal to this.N_series for stranded
models.

### .**property_modified** Adds the modified property to the list of modified
properties.

### .**save_to_excel** Export winding specs.

save_to_excel(this, filename, varargin)

### .**set_layout_matrix** Initialize winding layout matrix.

A layout matrix is a number_of_layers x number_of_slots matrix of
integers, with values in range -phases...phases.

The entries of the layout matrix W are:

*  W(i, j) = +k : phase k goes through layer i, slot j, to
positive direction:

* W(i, j) = -k : phase k goes through layer i, slot j, to
negative direction:

### .**show_unset_properties** Show warning about unset properties (default
values).

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**symmetry_period** is a function.
n = symmetry_period(this)

### .**total_phase_quantity_matrix** Sum of quantities in parallel
paths.

Mtot = total_phase_quantity_matrix(this)

This matrix is used to for problems where
`this.meshed_wires_in_hand`  > 1, to e.g. compute the total
current in a phase:

Iphase = Mtot * I_parallel_paths

### .PolyphaseWindingSpec/**visualize** is a function.
visualize(this, varargin)

### .**winding_angle** Compute winding angle.

a = winding_angle(this)

Compute the stator *winding angle*  i.e. rotation angle for the
direct-quadrature space vector transformation (*without* considering the
rotor bias angle) so that injecting d-axis current into the stator winding
generates a cosinusoidal airgap flux
density waveform (first peak of fundamental at y = 0, assuming
non-salient rotor).

### .**xy** Transform to phase quantities

y = xy(this, dq, angles), where

* angles : (rotor) angles in electrical degrees.

y = xy(this, dq)
