docs/api/Slot1.md, before:

---
title : Slot1
parent: API
grand_parent : Documentation
---
# Summary for: **Slot1**  < [StatorSlotShape](StatorSlotShape.html)

## Class summary

Slot1 Basic stator slot shape.

Slot dimensions (fields of the dimensions struct):
* hslot_s : total slot height (airgap to slot bottom) (m)
* wtooth_s : tooth width (m). Prefentially used.
* wslot_s : slot width (m). Used if *wtooth* s_ not given.
* wslot_s_bottom : (OPTIONAL) Slot bottom width. Default: wslot_s.
* r_slotbottom_s : slot bottom corner fillet radius.
* htt_s : Total tooth-tip / slot opening height.
* htt_taper_s : Airgap to tooth-tip taper distance. Or, slot
opening height.
* wso_s : Airgap to tooth-tip taper distance.
* stator_slot_opening_type : "high" (default) or "low"; how far the
winding window extends towards the slot opening

(OPTIONAL) Mesh density parameters:
* lcar_slot : characteristic length for slot top
* lcar_slot_bottom : ditto for slot bottom

## Properties

### .Slot1/**N_layers** is a property.

### .Slot1/**layer_orientation** is a property.

### .Slot1/**parent_type** is a property.

### .Slot1/**slot_bottom_type** is a property.

### .Slot1/**slot_opening_type** is a property.

### .Slot1/**slot_shape** is a property.


## Methods

Class methods are listed below. Inherited methods are not included.

### .Slot1/**create_geometry** is a function.
create_geometry(this)

### .Slot1/**create_geometry_old** is a function.

### .Slot1.**list_dimensions** is an undocumented builtin static method or package function.

### .Slot1/**orientation_angle** is a function.
a = orientation_angle(this)

Commit message:

Slot-Layout finished
More or less

docs/api/Slot1.md, after:

---
title : Slot1
parent: API
grand_parent : Documentation
---
# Summary for: **Slot1**  < [StatorSlotShape](StatorSlotShape.html)

## Class summary

Slot1 Basic stator slot shape.

Slot dimensions (fields of the dimensions struct):
* hslot_s : total slot height (airgap to slot bottom) (m)
* wtooth_s : tooth width (m). Prefentially used.
* wslot_s : slot width (m). Used if *wtooth* s_ not given.
* wslot_s_bottom : (OPTIONAL) Slot bottom width. Default: wslot_s.
* r_slotbottom_s : slot bottom corner fillet radius.
* htt_s : Total tooth-tip / slot opening height.
* htt_taper_s : Airgap to tooth-tip taper distance. Or, slot
opening height.
* wso_s : Airgap to tooth-tip taper distance.
* stator_slot_opening_type : "high" (default) or "low"; how far the
winding window extends towards the slot opening

(OPTIONAL) Mesh density parameters:
* lcar_slot : characteristic length for slot top
* lcar_slot_bottom : ditto for slot bottom

## Properties

### .Slot1/**N_layers** is a property.

### .**has_opening** Does the slot have a slot opening

this.has_opening is `true` if the slot shape as a slot opening
(either real or all-steel virtual surface), and thus
`this.airgap_surface_curves` is non-empty. If `this.has_opening`
is `false`, then the slot does not touch the airgap at all, and
all its surfaces appear as `holes` in the parent surface.
Help for Slot1/has_opening is inherited from superclass SlotShapeBase

### .Slot1/**layer_orientation** is a property.

### .Slot1/**parent_type** is a property.

### .Slot1/**slot_bottom_type** is a property.

### .Slot1/**slot_opening_type** is a property.

### .Slot1/**slot_shape** is a property.


## Methods

Class methods are listed below. Inherited methods are not included.

### .Slot1/**create_geometry** is a function.
create_geometry(this)

### .Slot1/**create_geometry_old** is a function.

### .Slot1.**list_dimensions** is an undocumented builtin static method or package function.

### .Slot1/**orientation_angle** is a function.
a = orientation_angle(this)
