---
title : spset
parent: API
grand_parent : Documentation
---
# Summary for: **spset**

SPSET   Create/alter sparse interpolation OPTIONS structure
OPTIONS = SPSET('NAME1',VALUE1,'NAME2',VALUE2,...) creates an
options structure OPTIONS in which the named properties have
the specified values. Any unspecified properties have default
values. It is sufficient to type only the leading characters
that uniquely identify the property. Case is ignored for
property names.

OPTIONS = SPSET(OLDOPTS,'NAME1',VALUE1,...) alters an existing
options structure OLDOPTS.

OPTIONS = SPSET(OLDOPTS,NEWOPTS) combines an existing options
structure OLDOPTS with a new options structure NEWOPTS. Any new
properties overwrite corresponding old properties.

SPSET with no input arguments displays all property names and
their possible values.

See also SPGET, SPINTERP, SPVALS.


SPSET PROPERTIES

GridType - Sparse grid type and basis functions to use
[ {Clenshaw-Curtis} ` Maximum `  NoBoundary ` Chebyshev `
Gauss-Patterson ]. For an illustration of  the grid types,
run CMPGRIDS.

RelTol - Relative error tolerance [ positive scalar {1e-2} ]
A relative error tolerance that applies to all hierarchical
surpluses of the sparse grid representation. The grid is
further refined until all hierarchical surpluses are less than
max(RelTol*(max(fevalRange)-min(fevalRange)),AbsTol), with
fevalRange containing all results evaluating FUN up to
that point.

AbsTol - Absolute error tolerance [ positive scalar {1e-6} ]
Used by the error control stated under RelTol.

Vectorized - Vectorized function FUN [ on | {off} ]
Indicates if FUN is available for vectorized evaluation.
Vectorized coding of FUN can significantly reduce the
computation time used by SPVALS. For an example using a
vectorized function, please see SPDEMO.

MinDepth - Minimum interpolation depth [ integer {2} ]
Minimum number of hierarchical interpolation levels n to
compute.

MaxDepth - Maximum interpolation depth [ integer {8} ]
Maximum number of hierarchical interpolation levels n to
compute. The maximum supported depth (and the default) is 6
for the Gauss-Patterson grid.

VariablePositions - Position of the ranges to interpolate in the
argument list when FUN is evaluated. [ 1xD vector {[]} ]
By setting VariablePositions, SPVALS will evaluate FUN with respect
to some of its input parameters, but not necessarily the first
D ones. With VARPOS, the actual position of each variable may
be set. VARPOS must be a 1xD array.

NumberOfOutputs - Number of outputs [ integer {1} ]
If FUN produces multiple outputs (all must be scalar), indicate
this here to perform the sparse grid computation for many
output variables at once. Also see the example SPDEMOVAROUT.

PrevResults - Previous sparse grid representation [ struct {[]} ]
An existing result structure obtained from SPVALS may be
provided to further refine an existing sparse grid.

FunctionArgType - Function argument type [ {list} | vector ]
Indicates whether the objective function takes the input
parameters as a comma-separated list (default) or as a vector.

KeepFunctionValues - Keep the function evaluations [ {off} | on ]
If this parameter is set, a structure field 'fvals' is
returned, containing a cell array with the function values at
the sparse grid points.

KeepGrid - Keep the sparse grid points [ {off} | on ]
If this parameter is set, a structure field 'grid' is
returned, containing a cell array with the the sparse grid
points.

DimensionAdaptive - Set dimension adaptivity option [ {off} | on ]
Dimension-adaptive grids try to adaptively find important
dimensions and adjust the sparse grid structure
accordingly. The implementation of dimension-adaptive sparse
grids follows the approach by Gerstner/Griebel.

MinPoints - Minimum number of support nodes [ integer {100} ]
This parameter only applies to dimension-adaptive sparse grids,
and indicates the minimum number of support nodes
(i.e. function evaluations to perform).

MaxPoints - Maximum number of support nodes [ integer {10000} ]
This parameter only applies to dimension-adaptive sparse grids.
The dimension-adaptive algorithm is aborted once the function
evaluation count exceeds this number.

DimadaptDegree - Fine-tuning parameter to alter the degree of
dimension-adaptivity [ positive scalar {0.9} ]. A value of 1
places complete emphasis on the error estimates, and thus leads
to "greedy" dimension-adaptivity. A value of 0 disregards the
error estimates, and constructs a conventional sparse grid
based on the amount of work involved.

DegreeStrategy - [ {balancing} | depth ] Strategy for the degree
of dimensional adaptivity.
The 'balancing' strategy balances the number of grid points
generated according to the greedy, error estimate-based refine-
ment rule compared to the number of points generated by the
conventional (regular) sparse grid refinement rule. I.e., a
DimadaptDegree value of 0.9 would mean that around 90% of the
grid points are generated by the error estimate-based rule, and
the remaining points are selected according to the regular
rule.
The 'depth' strategy makes sure that the maximum level depth
reached by the error estimate-based refinement in one dimension
does not get too deep compared to the depth reached in the other
dimensions. This measurement degree strategy is the one used
prior to version 5.1.0 of the toolbox, and is described on page
61 of A. Klimke, "Uncertainty modeling using fuzzy arithmetic
and sparse grids". This approach is still supported but no
the default strategy.

SparseIndices - [ {auto} ` on `  off ] Manually turn the efficient
sparse storage scheme (new feature since version 3.0) of the
multi-index arrays on or off. The default switch auto uses the
new scheme for the ClenshawCurtis and the Chebyshev grid, and
the old (full) storage scheme from version 2.x for the Maximum
and the NoBoundary grid (the sparse grid storage scheme is not
supported for these two grid types).

DropTol - Drop tolerance [ {auto} ` off `  1x2 double vector ]
During the sparse grid construction progress, the spvals
algorithm may add subgrids with hierarchical surpluses that are
all close to zero or of negligible magnitude compared to the
surpluses of other sub-grids. In particular, this occurs when
additive structure is present in the objective function.
To increase the performance of the spinterp algorithm,
subgrids where all (absolute) hierarchical surpluses are less
than max(relDropTol*(max(fevalRange)-min(fevalRange),absDropTol))
can be omitted from the interpolation process by running the
sppurge algoritm (see help sppurge).
You may specify the absolute and the relative drop tolerance
as a vector [ absDropTol, relDropTol ], or turn it off completely
(= behavior of version 3.0 and earlier). The switch 'auto' uses
the values absDropTol = 0, relDropTol = 100*eps, that is, by
default, only a relative drop tolerance is used.

EnableDCT - [ {on} | off ]  Use the DCT when constructing the
Chebyshev-Gauss-Lobatto type sparse grid.

