---
title : vtkwrite
parent: API
grand_parent : Documentation
---
# Summary for: **vtkwrite**

VTKWRITE Writes 3D Matlab array into VTK file format.
**vtkwrite**(filename,'structured_grid',x,y,z,'vectors',title,u,v,w) writes
a structured 3D vector data into VTK file, with name specified by the string
filename. (u,v,w) are the vector components at the points (x,y,z). x,y,z
should be 3-D matrices like those generated by meshgrid, where
point(ijk) is specified by x(i,j,k), y(i,j,k) and z(i,j,k).
The matrices x,y,z,u,v,w must all be the same size and contain
corrresponding position and vector component. The string title specifies
the name of the vector field to be saved.

**vtkwrite**(filename,'structured_grid',x,y,z,'scalars',title,r) writes a 3D
scalar data into VTK file whose name is specified by the string
filename. r is the scalar value at the points (x,y,z). The matrices
x,y,z,r must all be the same size and contain the corresponding position
and scalar values.

**vtkwrite**(filename,'structured_grid',x,y,z,'vectors',title,u,v,w,'scalars',
title2,r) writes a 3D structured grid that contains both vector and scalar values.
x,y,z,u,v,w,r must all be the same size and contain the corresponding
positon, vector and scalar values.

**vtkwrite**(filename, 'structured_points', title, m) saves matrix m (could
be 1D, 2D or 3D array) into vtk as structured points.

**vtkwrite**(filename, 'structured_points', title, m, 'spacing', sx, sy, sz)
allows user to specify spacing. (default: 1, 1, 1). This is the aspect
ratio of a single voxel.

**vtkwrite**(filename, 'structured_points', title, m, 'origin', ox, oy, oz)
allows user to speicify origin of dataset. (default: 0, 0, 0).

**vtkwrite**(filename,'unstructured_grid',x,y,z,'vectors',title,u,v,w,'scalars',
title2,r) writes a 3D unstructured grid that contains both vector and scalar values.
x,y,z,u,v,w,r must all be the same size and contain the corresponding
positon, vector and scalar values.

**vtkwrite**(filename, 'polydata', 'lines', x, y, z) exports a 3D line where
x,y,z are coordinates of the points that make the line. x, y, z are
vectors containing the coordinates of points of the line, where point(n)
is specified by x(n), y(n) and z(n).

**vtkwrite**(filename,'polydata','lines',x,y,z,'Precision',n) allows you to
specify precision of the exported number up to n digits after decimal
point. Default precision is 3 digits.

**vtkwrite**(filename,'polydata','triangle',x,y,z,tri) exports a list of
triangles where x,y,z are the coordinates of the points and tri is an
m*3 matrix whose rows denote the points of the individual triangles.

**vtkwrite**(filename,'polydata','tetrahedron',x,y,z,tetra) exports a list
of tetrahedrons where x,y,z are the coordinates of the points
and tetra is an m*4 matrix whose rows denote the points of individual
tetrahedrons.

**vtkwrite**('execute','polydata','lines',x,y,z) will save data with default
filename ''matlab_export.vtk' and automatically loads data into
ParaView.

Version 2.3
Copyright, Chaoyuan Yeh, 2016
Codes are modified from William Thielicke and David Gingras's submission.

Default precision changed to 10 by Antti Lehikoinen, Smeklab Ltd, 2020.

